at that time she had an extreme
ideological commitment to the work of
Peter singer I don't think she read
Peter singer I don't think she read the
critiques of Peter singer and that's why
she was incapable of in a detached way
responding to me making an offhand
remark that I I see no value in the
legacy of Peter she can't respond them
to saying oh well aisel like the
majority of vegans really doesn't see
any value in the work of Peter CERN a
small number of reduce that area reduced
Erin's like Tobias Lee and art still
support Peterson's philosophy and they
are supported by him the people who are
still intrigued by this and who wanted
to say wanted to see for themselves what
I said in those emails I think what they
suffer from is justification ISM and by
this I mean the attitude of I'm a fan of
this person therefore if their behavior
is in any way bad or extreme or erratic
or questionable I am just going to
assume there is a justification I'm
gonna presume in my own mind that you
must have done something terrible to
justify her bad behavior I'm not willing
to consider the possibility that her bad
behavior is her fault to her decision or
her initiative but not even her fault
her initiative on her own initiative she
started this controversy out of nothing
and here on YouTube a lot of the time
controversy started out of nothing I
mean people like to disrespect my truth
but the fact is that you know my name is
I don't you may not believe me when I
say a small number of passionate people
in the audience want to hear me talk
more about the controversy between
myself in a trio vegan it's a small
number of people and they write to me a
great length and with great passion so
this is for you guys if you want to read
word for word what was said in the
emails back and forth
I'm gonna put those up on screen now
you're gonna have to hit pause I'm not
gonna bother narrating it
[Music]
[Applause]
I'm slightly out of breath because I
just ran downstairs throw up the garbage
you ran back up for kick we're on the
fifth floor but it's a lot more than
five ordinary flights of stairs so
hashtag vegan no heart attacks by four I
have 70% reduced chance heart attack
it's not it's not 100% it's doesn't ask
I have to slightly philosophical points
to make and I'm not gonna get into depth
about who said what because there's no
depth to get into they're the people who
are still intrigued by this and who
wanted to say wanted to see for
themselves what I said in those emails I
think what they suffer from is
justification ISM and by this I mean the
attitude of I'm a fan of this person
therefore if their behavior is in any
way bad or extreme or erratic or
questionable I am just going to assume
there is a justification I'm gonna
presume in my own mind that you must
have done something terrible to justify
her bad behavior I'm not willing to
consider the possibility that her bad
behavior is her fault to her decision or
her initiative but not even her fault
her initiative on her own initiative she
started this controversy out of nothing
and here on YouTube a lot of the time
controversy started out of nothing it's
not hard to believe you can look at this
email for yourself I do not think I was
a jerk in responding to this
I showed my girlfriend this is
correspondence for the first time today
I don't think I went back and looked at
this correspondence ever since I wrote
it I'd really forgotten what I said just
said out loud what a [ __ ] she was not
referring to me as a [ __ ] she was a bit
shocked by the bitchiness of what a
natural vegan had to say to me so it was
real clear to me that a natural vegan
was gonna make a hatchet job an attack
answer I got that from the email
correspondence she sent me and I was
right she made she made this this hatch
jump but still to this day there are
people in the audience who because of
leftist correspondence private and she
wanted to make it public so she said
that like oh the
that this should be shared with the
public as if there's something
meaningful insignificant here so a lot
of people just want to fill in
justification whatever bad thing a
natural vegan did here because I've
proven now it's boring but blow-by-blow
that she's really lying about and
misrepresenting and being unreasonable
but what my position is and blah blah
blah but even if she's done something
wrong it must be that aisel did
something much worse in these private
emails to provoke that and to justify
her behavior so when you read these
emails you tell me what I did that was
so terrible and even if it's terrible
like okay like I'm guilty as charged
her accusations against me are
ridiculous that I'm leading an echo
chamber or that you know I'm she said in
the video that she compares me to a cult
leader or the cult my followers have our
cult mentality is really really extreme
and unfair criticism she says I'm the
same as durianrider she says I can't
take criticism when the whole scenario
for this is I was offering her criticism
and she couldn't take it there are a lot
of strange contradictions in our nice
package in this but look even if I'm
guilty
even if she's right about everything it
doesn't justify our behavior and you
know part of my feeling about this this
leads into my second and final point
this is the only thing I got to say you
know Swayze wanted to blacken my
character and denounced me and defame me
in relation to my background as a
scholar of Buddhism and really what I
had to say and was reply to that was if
you're gonna do that read my work
actually look at the years of effort I
put into Buddhism and maybe you'll
understand why X Y and Zed is true by me
or maybe I'm so British but even if you
hate it
then at least it's an informed critique
I'd value that someone reads my work on
Buddhism then makes a video to see what
they think about it great but step one
there is actually reading the work on
Buddhism now the the controversy that's
boiling beneath the surface of this
nonsense at that time she had an extreme
ideological commitment to the work of
Peter Singer I don't think she read
the critiques of Peter Singer and that's
why she was incapable of in a detached
way responding to me making an offhand
remark that I I see no value in the
legacy of Peter she can't respond to him
saying oh well aisel like the majority
of vegans really doesn't see any value
in the work of Peter sir but if you were
to ask me today how it is my opinion of
Swasey differ from what it was back then
because if you paused and read this
email reply sent to her I say positively
what I valued about her channel at that
time my opinion of her has changed and I
now really regard her as the
intellectual equivalent of young women
on Instagram who just want to have an
easy life who just want to have
undeserved fame and adulation and money
and attention because they're
good-looking but the reality is all too
often if you were gonna stake your
future your career on your looks alone
not singing not dancing not writing
directing and producing your own cinema
not doing stand-up comedy if you do any
of those things your looks matter less
if you do stand-up comedy you can be
quite ugly and still be successful but
if you just want to be beautiful and
Instagram and get money and fame for
that the tragedy is so often that these
people really are not good-looking
enough to carry it which is to say I
don't know just their their opinion of
themselves is a little bit out of whack
with you know the way they use social
media and the pursuit of fame I really
feel that Swayze's position in this game
is the intellectual equivalent of that
she's someone who wants to be admired
for her views on philosophy without
really having any depth of knowledge of
or sophistication about philosophy she
wants to be taken seriously when she
talks about politics and ethics and
she's done none of the work and offers
none of the insight and frankly at this
point I can say she doesn't have the
talent for it either so
you know it would be a very different
world
if Swayze had responded to me by
actually reading my work on Buddhism
which I encouraged her to do I said well
look if you're gonna do this hatchet job
about my legacy of scholar but take a
look then maybe you'll understand why I
act the way I do when people who know
nothing about Buddhism want to tell me
what it says in the in the Buddhist
Canon I've read the Canon you haven't so
you can't you know those conversations
are not going to be as open-ended and
open-minded as the average kind of white
person who signed up for a meditation
course at the YMCA I'm at a much much
higher level knowledge that maybe you
can sympathize with the situation I was
in in this in this conversation it would
be a much different world
if Swasey had responded to my
disagreeing with her about Peter Singer
by being willing to actually take a look
at the intellectual legacy of Peter
Singer and the criticism that had
already been offered at that time had
already gained a lot of steam and a lot
of support from sources like Gary
franciotti people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know